A great book on personal finance which has gained a lot of popularity in a short time for all the right reasons is “The Psychology of Money” by Morgan Housel. 
Profound timeless concepts explained beautifully – this one is going to be around for a while. 
Sharing some of my key takeaways –
1.      For wealth generation - higher savings is more important than higher income – You earn $200K and save 50%, your boss earns a million dollars and saves 10% - viola - you are both building similar wealth. 
2.      Money can buy you possessions and money can buy you freedom – Choose wisely as no one is as impressed with your possessions as you are but on the other hand, gaining control of your time can give everlasting satisfaction. After all, time is life. 
3.      Make compounding work for you – the single most powerful thing you can do to grow wealth is to maximize your time horizon – Suppose you invest 100$ when you are 20 years old, and earn 10% p.a. – at age 60 you would have 4500$. But if you start at 30, you will need 13% p.a to get to the same outcome and 20% p.a if you start at age 40. Your chances of earning 10% p.a. over 40 years is much higher than earning 20% p.a. over 20 years. 
4.      Historical returns are no guarantee for what lays ahead – keep a margin of safety when estimating future returns. How much to keep ? As much as allows you to sleep at night and allows you the endurance to not interrupt compounding. I like to work with 50% of past 10year average returns as an assumption for future returns. 
5.      Sometimes, doing nothing is the hardest but also pays the highest dividends in the long run – When you invest in riskier assets, volatility is a certain - both upsides and downsides – develop the patience to deal with it.
6.      When choosing investment options – look for options with the highest odds of success for your time horizon rather than highest possible returns – makes a strong case for passive investing. 
7.      Each person is unique – what works for one may not for the other – so define your own investment strategy and style that can work for your temperament. You can create wealth with every asset class provided you have learnt how to make it work for you. 
8.      Last but not the least, health and money impact everyone and there is no excuse to not learn how to manage these. Ignorance is not bliss in money matters.